-*- text -*-
$RCSfile: NOTES_2.1.txt,v $
$Revision: 1.4 $
$Author: reida $
$Date: 2006/09/27 14:13:50 $


  Thoughts on the 2.1 version of OOF.  This file is an update of the
  subproblem_design.txt NOTES file, which itself is a successor of the
  NOTES.timestepping file.



  Functionality to be integrated:
  - Linear elements
  - Large deformations
  - Lagrange multiplier constraints
  - Periodic boundary conditions 
    - Via Lagrange multipliers?
    - Via clever skeleton construction?
  - Inequality constraints
    - Node-wise conditional Lagrange-multiplier constraints, right?
    - Plasticity, with rules for updating auxiliary fields
    - Surface contact works this way.
  - Subproblems
  - Time-dependence
  - Nonlinearities
    - Solver detection of nonlinear properties (already present in 2.0)
    - History-dependence through auxiliary fields.
  - Auxiliary fields, present and able to be updated by e.g. plasticity.


  Candidate definitions:
  
  - An "auxiliary field" is a field which does not correspond to a
  degree of freedom, but which may be updated according to some rule.

  - An "implied field" is a field which can be derived from another
  field, given the nature of the problem.  For example, the time rate
  of change of the displacement is an implied field in a
  time-dependent mechanical problem.  Implied fields are probably not
  very important.

  

  In approximate order of independence:

  1D elements -- 
    
    These can probably be implemented independently of the other
    desired functionality.  1D elements have their own constitutive
    rules, and can have "split" nodes, which is to say, they are like
    2D elements in the limit of extreme narrowness.  This allows
    fields to be discontinuous across these elements.

    Logistical issues surrounding these objects are mostly
    user-interface problems -- how to identify collections of them in
    the user interface so that appropriate properties can be assigned,
    how to automatically detect boundaries so that properties can be
    parametrized according to some kind of rule (relative orientation,
    etc.).

    Non-user-interface issues include providing "semi-1D" elements
    which allow discontinuities at one end but not at other, so that a
    line of 1D elements can terminate somewhere other than the
    boundary of the system.  It may also be desirable to specify some
    kind of directionality to these.

    1D elements should probably be inserted into the mesh at
    construction time, so that it can be known in advance which nodes
    are split and which are not -- this helps in making them
    independent of things like subproblems.

    Otherwise, they contribute to the linear system in the same way as
    regular elements, by integrating along them.


  Large-strain deformations --

    Also independent of the other functionality desired, but strongly
    coupled to the way the system works in general.  In particular, it
    probably can/should affect the way that Neumann boundary
    conditions work, forces being evaluated on the *displaced*
    boundary rather than the undisplaced one.  

    Ed has provided several good references on large-strain systems:
      - Wallace, D., "Thermoelasticity of Stressed Materials and 
          Comparison of Various Elastic Constants", Phys. Rev. 162, #3,
          p. 776, 15 October, 1967.
      - Murnaghan, "Finite Deformation of an Elastic Solid", John 
          Wiley and Sons, New York, 1951
      - Malkus and Fuller, "An Isoparametric Finite Element Model 
          for Large-Strain Elastostatics", J. Res. NBS 86, #1, 
          p. 79, January-February 1981
      
      There is also some stuff in Vol. 2 of Zienkiewicz & Taylor,
        and in Malvern.  

      Vol. 2, section 10.3.2 of Zienkiewicz & Taylor provides a
      prescription for the development of displacement-based
      finite element models. These may be performed by adding a few
      modifications to a standard linear form. The steps include:
      1. Use current (i.e. deformed) configuration coordinates (x_i) to compute
        shape functions and their derivatives. These are computed at
        nodes by adding current values of displacements (u_i) to reference
        configuration nodal coordinates (X_i).
      2. Add a geometric stiffness matrix to the usual stiffness matrix as
        indicated in the book's Eq. (10.85).
      3. Use the appropriate material constitution for a finite deformation
        solid.
      4. Solve the problem by means of an appropriate strategy for non-linear
        problems.

      Some simple constitutive relations are:
      1. Neo-Hookean solid - The stored energy density (W) is
         parametrized by two constants (may be temperature dependent);
         one if the material is incompressible. (W depends on the
         first invariant of the Finger tensor, which is F.F(T),
         where F is the deformation gradient tensor, and (T) denotes
         the transpose.  It is distinguished from the "Right Cauchy
         Green deformation tensor", which is F(T).F .

      2. Mooney-Rivlin solid - a generalization of the Neo-Hookean
         solid model.  (Here the strain energy W is a linear
         combination of two invariants of the Finger tensor.) 
         (Reference:Wikipedia).

  Lagrange Multiplier Constraints (includes Plasticity) --

    For equality constraints, these add new equations and degrees of
    freedom to the system.  The new degrees of freedom are the
    components of the Lagrange multiplier field, of course, and the
    equations are the constraint equations.  The resulting stiffness
    matrix is larger, and probably not symmetric.  Constraints are
    property-like, in that they are aspects of a material which
    generate equations, contributing to a flux of some kind.  The flux
    is the constraint, the equation type is a direct equation
    (i.e. not a divergence equation), and as already mentioned, the
    field is the Lagrange multiplier field.
  
    Interestingly, there is already a facility in OOF that works this
    way, it's the plane-stress constraint.  In that case, the
    "Lagrange multipliers" are just the plain strain components
    themselves.

    More interesting/complicated is the inequality constraint case.
    This actually *does* connect with time-dependence, and may
    influence intermediate states.  The way to do inequality
    constraints is, for each candidate linear system, see if the
    constraint is violated, and when/where it is, impose the
    constraint as an equality constraint.  This must be re-done for
    every iteration or time-step or whatever.

    An interesting question is how to do this in the case where the
    constrainted area may be a function of time.

    In the special case of isotropic plasticity, in addition to
    satisfying the inequality constraint, it may be necessary to
    update auxiliary fields (using the definition above) in response
    to the increment of plastic strain.  For isotropic plasticity, the
    yield surface may move in response to the hardening rule(s).
    
    Isotropic plasticity is intrinsically time-dependent, of course,
    even if it's not rate-dependent.

    Inequality constraints can be tricky -- a worked example of a
    dynamical system (i.e. 2nd order in time) with an inequality space
    constraint revealed that it may not always be possible for the
    time-stepper to ensure that the constraint is satisfied at the end
    of an iteration.  In the studied case, a particle approached a
    barrier, and the naive constraint was just that the particle could
    not pass through the barrier.  Imposing the constraint gave rise
    to an uncontrolled and unphysical result for the velocity, but
    adding a velocity constraint simply gave rise to an inconsistent
    set of equations.  This is because the time-stepping scheme works
    by computing a self-consistent, semi-implicit effective
    acceleration for the interval, and then applying it uniformly.
    For a fixed time-step dt, there is in general no acceleration
    which will cause a particle to have zero position *and* velocity
    at the end of the time-step -- the acceleration is one paramter,
    and you're trying to set two varaibles.

    It's not clear if this is a real practical problem, although it
    would arise in the case of a dynamical solid-mechanics system with
    plasticity.  The physical content of the problem is, where should
    the kinetic energy go?

  
  Time-dependence -- stop stalling, address the hard problem:

    For a single sub-problem, in the absence of constraints,
    time-dependence is straightforward.  Our equations will be of the
    form Mx''+Cx'+Sx=r, where primes denote time derivatives.  Then
    iterating an x from t to t+dt is a matter of building the
    matrices, choosing the degree of implicitness (separately for
    first and second derivatives), and solving the resulting linear
    system, possibly more than once.

    In the second-order-in-time case, it is necessary to store a
    velocity field, for which initial conditions also need to be
    provided.

    Complications arise, as already mentioned, in the constrained
    case.  Do constraints on the fields automatically imply
    constraints on the velocities?  The answer would seem to be
    "obviously yes", but how does this work mechanically?

    Additional complications arise in the subproblem case.  A
    subproblem in contact with another subproblem will not be
    synchronized with it, and so in evaluating its implicit terms at
    t+dt or intermediate steps, it may need to refer to values which
    do not yet exist.  The other subproblem may provide some estimate
    of these values (which may be the trivial estimate, "use the value
    at time t").  Subproblems may wish to iterate together multiple
    times until they converge.

  Subproblems --

    A subproblem is the set of objects necessary to construct a
    well-posed linear(ized) system, which can then be iterated from t
    to t+dt.  Subproblems need not be "geographic" in nature, they
    could consist of a subset of fields and equations, which might,
    for example, evolve more (or less) rapidly than other components
    of the physical system being modeled.  In the geographic case,
    they may have 1D elements on the boundary, where "exterior"
    degrees of freedom are converted to "interior" ones by some
    constitutive process, e.g. a chemical reaction converting one
    species to another at a surface.  (Prototypical problem: LiIon
    batteries.)


  Other issues:

    Nonlinearities -- may interact with Lagrangian constraints, since
    they may affect when/whether to apply the constraint.  As a
    nonlinear iteration proceeds, the constraint, initially thought to
    have been required, may turn out not to have been.  (Can this
    really happen?)


