 -*- text -*-
$RCSfile: subproblem_design.txt,v $
$Revision: 1.3 $
$Author: reida $
$Date: 2006/03/28 16:15:32 $


  This file is the conceptual successor of NOTES.timestepping.


Thoughs on subproblems, solvers, etc.:
--------------------------------------


  At the highest level, it's useful to make a fundamental distinction
between the subproblem objects on the one hand, and linear algebra 
objects on the other hand.  

  Subproblems seem like a natural unit of encapsulation for all of the 
physical details of a problem.  They should contain:
  - Geometric data -- nodes, segments, elements, boundaries, 
      including line elements.  These should refer to mesh data,
      they should not duplicate mesh objects.  
  - Physical data -- fields, equaitons, materials, properties, and 
      boundary conditions.  Equality and inequality constraints
      are in this category.
  - State data -- the solved DOFs for particular times; whether or not
      inequality constraints are violated in the current state.

 
  The fundamental job of the subproblem is to provide the M, C, and S 
matrices and the r vector, along with metadata indicating which rows
and columns are dependent/independent or free/fixed, as well as which
are in-plane or out-of-plane.  The solver may use this info to stabilize
or separate the linear algebra problem.


Solvers:
--------

  The fundamental task of the solver is to take a subproblem from
a current time t to a new time t + dt.  

  The basic method is:
   - Get M,C,S,r from subproblem.
   - Construct linear algebra problem from these 
       (extract free/indep part, apply float bcs, combine MCS into K)
   - Solve Kx=b
   - Write x back into subproblem.

  For equilibration, dt=0, you just solve Sx=b locally.
  For quasi-static problems, get MCSr at time t+dt (boundary conditions
    or inactive fields may be time-dependent), and solve. 
  For kinetic/dynamic case, get MCSr, and build Kb from them, then 
    solve Kx=b for x.

  Two related special cases arise:
   - If the problem is nonlinear, the matrices are functions of the 
     degrees of freedom.  You must step several times, generating new
     matrices at each step, and solving for the increment. 
   - If there are inequality constraints, after solving the system,
     you want to have the subproblem add them in as equality constraints
     where they are violated, and solve it again.


Issues/Details:
--------------

  Logistically speaking, there should always be at least one
subproblem.  Meshes contain the actual elements, funcnodes, and 
edges in the boundaries.  This should be extended to include
line elements.
  
  For both line elements and equality constraints, there will be fields
and equations which are defined only on some nodes and not others.
Furthermore, for the inequality constraints, they will be dynamically
applied (as equality constraints) after violations of the inequality
have been detected.
  Consequently, since nodes are (in this context) static, and
equations/fields are dynamic, the thing to do may be to keep a list,
for each equation/field, of the nodes to which it applies, and a
separate subproblem-local DOF list not in the actual nodes.  It must
still be possible to rapidly compute an index into the matrix, given a
node, a field, and a field component, since the matrix-construction
machinery will want to do this.
  Equation ordering is either deduced from DOF ordering (via conjugacy) 
or else it doesn't matter.  Also, equations don't contain any data.


  C-matrix construction (the thing multiplying the time-derivative of
the DOFs) must become much more sophisticated, in order to handle,
e.g., the viscoleastic case, where the contributions to the C-matrix
are not trivial.  In viscoelasticity, there is a term proportional 
to the rate of change of strain, which is the divergence of a kind 
of "viscous stress". 
  The generalized creep (Maxwell/Kelvin) case is even more complicated,
in this case you get an internal degree of freedom, which has to 
be handled.
 
  There can in the general case be "surprise" degrees of freedom -- for
instance, in plasticity, while the plastic strain and various plastic
parameters may be defined everywhere, the actual DOF which appears in
the linear algebra problem is the parameter "gamma", and components of
the plastic strain *increment* for this iteration.  Presumably in this
case the plasticity property will know how to find and use this data.
In the case of dynamic (second-derivative-in-time) problems, the rates
of change of all of the DOFs also become DOFs, but in a different way
-- they're not added to the list of DOFs, they should be in a separate
list.


  Subproblems need to communicate with other subproblems in order to
establish boundary conditions (fluxes/fields) between them.
Subproblems may want to query their neighbors about the value of their
fields at intermediate times not directly solved-for -- subproblems
should interpolate to answer these questions.  This means subproblems
will want to keep at least last-time-step data, memory permitting.

  Since boundaries between subproblems are shared, the natural 
scope for them is the mesh -- they can be understood as geometric
objects.  Special boundary conditions ("deduce flux from subproblem A")
may be required to get values into the subproblem matrix construction
process.


More details:
------------

  Much of the murkiness of the current code involves the names of the
objects, which evolved gradually while the functionality was still
being explored.  These classes should be rationally renamed.

  Speaking of incomprehensible names, in the folowing "MCSr" 
refers to the M-mass-matrix, C-conducitivity-matrix, 
S-master-stiffenss-matrix, and r-right-hand-side combo.

  What you need to specify to get it done:



  LinearizedProblem: Natural encapsulation unit.
    - Thing which takes the MCSr system, with profiles etc., and
        constructs the A.x = -(C.x(fixed))-r(indep) system. 
    - The same thing can return the C or M matrices.
    This object ought, in fact, to be the MCSr system object itself,
    and in fact the stiffness matrix probably can already do this
    (except the M and C stuff).


  TimeIncrementer: (Advancer?  TimeAdvancer? Maturation? 
                    Developer? Evolution? Progress?)
    - Takes a subproblem from t to t+dt.
    
    Equilibration:
      - "Reset" subproblem (release inequality constraints)  
      - Get MCSr system at target time (t=0 default)
      - Solve Ax=b problem (may be nonlinear and require fresh As.)
      - Write DOFs into subproblem
      - Ask subproblem if it has violated inequality constraints
      - If so:
          - Get new MCSr system at target time
          - Solve Ax=b problem (may, again, be nonlinear)
          - Write DOFs into subproblem.
      1
    Quasistatic:
      - For target time t+dt:
        - Do Equilibration, as above.

    NB The difference between "equilibrate" and "quasistatic" is
    mostly in how they're called -- operationally, they're the same.

    Kinetic/Dynamic:
      - "Reset" subproblem
      - Get MCSr system at time t and t+dt. 
      - Construct Kx=b system from MCSr -- includes extraction of 
           A matrix, BCs, possible stabiliziation stuff.
      - Solve Kx=b for x(t+dt) -- may be nonlinear and require new K and bs.
      - Write DOFs into subproblem
      - Check for violated inequality constraints.
      - If so:
         - Get expanded MCSr system at times t and t+dt
         - Construct Kx=b system from MCSr.
         - Solve Kx=b for x(t+dt). 
         - Write DOFs into subproblem 
    
  Hooks: 
    - Kinetic/Dynamic solvers should check if adaptive time-stepping
      is required, by validating/invalidating solutions/residuals.
    - All solvers should run "post-process", of course, so that
      plasticity props can transfer plastic-strain increments into
      the plastic strain fields, etc.



  Note: 

  For the case of intersecting Dirichlet/Floating boundary conditions
which intersect in the mesh but not in the subproblem, it is
particularly obvious that boundary conditions probably should live in
the mesh, so that intersections can be checked for validity.


=========
  Subproblems have numerous interactions, but these are well
sequestered within/between the objects, so it's possible to defer
these until after the foregoing stuff works, and concentrate 
instead on new functionality for extra fields, and so forth,
and just treat the mesh in devel-1 as "the" subproblem.
=========

  Equality Constraints:
  ---------------------

  Equality constraints are "easy" in the sense that they permamently add
equations and degrees of freedom to the mesh/subproblem, and do not
need to be dealt with dynamically.  But a general mechanism for
specifying them ought to be in place.  One possibility is to make them
properties.  Downside: Constraints do not contribute to fluxes, and
are not generally constitutive -- they may be expected to refer to the
geometry of a particular sample.  They may also be nonlocal, the
canonical example being a periodic boundary condition.

  
  Inequality Constraints:
  -----------------------

  Inequality constraints *are* dynamic, and in addition, may arise from
properties (plasticity being the obvious example) or geometry (surface
interpenetration being the obvious example), so a general mechanism
for handling these would have to do all of that.


  Constraints in General:
  -----------------------

  For both types of constraints, it makes sense to have the DOF/eqns
defined somewhere other than in every node -- probably in a special
list in the subproblem, which indicates to which nodes they belong.

  Along the same lines as boundary conditions, it might make sense for
users to be able to add non-property constraints at the mesh level,
and for subproblems to automatically understand their role in these
things.

  But properties need to be able to add things to their subproblem, it
doesn't make sense for a property to add a constraint to parts of the
mesh in which it does not participate.

  In fact, properties maybe only need to add constraints to particular
elements -- if a property is adding the constraint, it's not going to
be geometric in character, so that is likely to work.

  This may gum up the property API.  But, in fact, for plasticity, the
constraint (stress is inside/outside the yield surface) is expressed
in terms that only the property is equipped to understand anyways, so
this is not wrong.


  The Plasticity Property in Particular:
  --------------------------------------

  Must enforce an inequality constraint, and activate it at the
appropriate times, and then make contributions to the various
rows/columns of the stiffness matrix.  It probably needs a new routine
("makeequation"?) to do this, unless a fictitious flux is invented.

  Unlike the case with flux-contributing properties, one does not expect
there to be multiple contributors to constraint equations.
  